So first of all,
we've reached our first checkpoint,
if you've fallen behind or
just wanna start from a clean
slate here you can start
from 01-no-frills-react.
That is the state of
the project up until now.
From here, we're gonna stop
writing React.CreateElement,
you will not write this again for the
duration of the rest of the class here.
We're gonna move into JSX now.
The reason why we're gonna do that is
because no one ever writes React this way,
everyone uses JSX now.
I imagine most of you probably
have seen JSX before, but
JSX really just renders out to this.
Again, you can look at the rendered
output of your build tool and
it looks just like this.
All right, so, First thing I
need you to open your terminal.
This is not a binary,
that's Ctrl back tick is
how you open and
close your terminal in VS code.
You can see here I'm in my adopt-me app,
and we're gonna start using npm.
So we're gonna say npm init, this will
start like a brand new npm project,
the reason why we're gonna do this
is because we need to keep track of
our dependencies.
You can say this it'll ask you a bunch of
questions, I don't wanna answer questions,
if you put dash y it just
generates everything for you.
And I get here a nice package.json.
Package.json is where I'm gonna start
keeping all of my dependencies.
Again, this is very common for
every front end,
or back end project in node.js.
So, the next thing I wanna do here for
you is let's put in Prettier.
This is as much for me, cuz I am incapable
of writing code now without Prettier.
Prettier is a tool that just
auto formats your code.
You can see here I was pretty
lackadaisical about where I put
semicolons and where I didn't,
like for example here.
At the end of this React.createElement
technically semicolon should have gone
there, I wasn't thinking about it nor
did I care about it.
Cuz normally whenever I just save my file,
all of them get magically inserted,
I'm just gonna show you how
to do that very quickly.
Prettier is a tool that auto
formats your code for you.
And it's why I don't care
about semicolons, tab spaces,
anything like that, is because
this tool at the end of time I hit
Save it removes all the code formatting
that I've done and it puts in its own,
which means I never
have to think about it.
I had this background thread in my
brain that was always thinking about,
is this indented enough?
Should I put a comma here?
Should I not put a comma here?
Should I put a semicolon here?
Should I not?
That that thread of my brain has
now totally shut down always and
forever because I just let
Prettier handle it for me.
So, here in your terminal I
want you to say npm install and
we're gonna install Prettier.
What version did we add here?
It usually doesn't matter.
--save-dev, prettier, and
save-dev, so this is gonna go
in the developer dependencies,
which is where that comes from.
You can put save-dev like this, or you
can just put -D, it means the same thing.
You also don't have to do install like
that, you can also just do npm i which
is what I do, so you'll see me do npm and
i -D, that's in install save dev.
That's just the shorthand for that.
So we're gonna install prettier@2.7.1.
Now you might be asking me, why am I
installing a specific version of this?
All the dependencies in this course
are fixed on certain numbers because
I can only control right
now what tools you install.
So if I just tell you to do this,
it'll install whatever
the latest version of this.
But 6 months later,
a year later when someone's taking
this course it might break with all
the configurations that I have now.
So if you're following along with this,
what I'm going to invite you to do is
follow along with the same versions that
I am using because I can guarantee you
everything right now fits together and
works together.
And if it's a year later when
you're watching this course,
I can't guarantee that anymore.
You're welcome to try and
upgrade update things.
But things are probably gonna break and
you're gonna spend some time debugging
that which is not what I want you to do,
I want you to learn React, the concepts.
The concepts are unchanging the individual
syntax might change a little over time.
So 2.7.1.
Does that make sense of why I'm
fixing all the dependencies here?
Okay, cool.
So you'll notice if you go
in here in package.json,
it still has this little caret here,
that basically means that it'll install
the latest patch version of this, right?
So if you say npm install this
again later, it's gonna install,
if 7.2 came out,
it would install that for you.
If you'll notice when you
look at my package.json,
Here in my GitHub
btholt/complete-intro-to-react-v8.
Actually, let's the other one.
Here you'll notice that I've taken
all of those carets out for
precisely that reason.
So it installs exactly that version.
Normally you should leave that in though.
And for now it actually doesn't matter
because as long as you have the correct
version, it doesn't matter
to me which one you use.
Okay, so here we are,
we have prettier installed now.
Now let's go use prettier.
Well the first thing we need to do is
we need to make a configuration object.
So here just at the base
level of your project,
create a new file,
call it .prettierrc, okay?
Here's where you would configure prettier,
and I don't care.
So I'm going to give it an empty object
which basically says use whatever
your defaults are.
I really don't care what they are.
But if you wanted to do tabs versus spaces
or you wanted to have four indent or
two indent spaces, this is all
the stuff where you'd handle that or
single quotes or double quotes.
You could configure that here.
The only reason that we put in a file
there at all is now we can tell our VS
code is like if you see a prettier
configuration, use prettier automatically.
Which you can do here, you can open your
settings, so Shift + Command + P and
you can say Settings, stuff like that or
you can just hit Command or Control.
Command on Mac, Control on Windows comma.
This will open your settings and you want
to turn on Format on Save, this one here.
Okay, and the other one that you
want to turn on is prettier,
getting ahead of myself here.
So you do turn on Format on Save and
then you wanna install
an extension here called Prettier.
This one here, Prettier Code formatter.
It'll be the one that
has a tons of downloads.
There's like three or four of them,
but the one that has tons and
tons of downloads is
the one that you want.
So install that.
Once you've installed that, go back
to your settings look for prettier.
And the one that you
wanna turn on here is,
Make sure it's enabled, which one is it?
Yeah, prettier here what require config,
check that one.
Now, if you have two projects, one that
is using Prettier and one that is not,
it's gonna make sure that there's
a config file in the project,
if there is it'll use that.
If you're on a different project
that does not have a config,
Prettier is not gonna run.
Which is good,
because you don't wanna format files that
you're not necessarily supposed to, right.
Okay, so, we now have that,
why is this super useful.
Now if I do something like this,
does this offend you?
It should.
But now if I save it,
it just fixes it, right?
You really can't mess it up now.
You can put things on the same line.
If I save it, it's just gonna put it
right back to where it's supposed to go.
Right.
So now every time I save
my file that happens.
So if you see my code jumping around like
that it's probably clims saving stuff.
Okay, so that's Prettier,
any questions about Prettier?
So go here to your package.json.
I use VS code and
most people I know use VS code.
Yeah, go ahead.
Do we have to set this up every
time we start a new project?
You don't have to do
all the VS code stuff.
You do that once, it works forever.
Putting a prettier rc file, yeah.
For whatever project that you need to use
Prettier on you'll put a prettier rc, but
everything else, no.
So I use VS code.
Lots of people that I know use VS code but
not everybody uses VS code.
Prim Gen doesn't use VS code famously.
So, what I like to do is I like to
leave the commands here in the scripts
of my package.json so
that someone that comes by later has
the ability to use the tool
the same way that I am.
So we're gonna write
a thing called format here.
And I'm just gonna do prettier
--write and \ " that, src,
Asteriskasterisk/asterisk, and
then you can put js and jsx.
And you can also put ts and
tsx there if you want to,
if you're gonna do TypeScript, but
for now we'll just have js, jsx.
Okay, prettier, which is the CLI command.
You don't have to install it, it'll
actually just find it directly in your
node modules for you, so
that's fine as long as it's installed.
-- write means that write it back to
the file, so overwrite everything.
This is escaping a back tick or
a double quote here.
The reason why you wanna quote this is so
that Prettier is literally past the whole
string of the path, otherwise
like bash will expand it for you.
And then you're just saying everything
inside of the source directory,
that's arbitrarily deep, as long as
it has a file extension of js or
jsx please format it for me.
So now if I say npm run format
like this from my directory,
it's gonna run that command for me.
And you can see here it
ran it on src/App.js.
It's grayed out,
which means nothing changed.
But if at app.js, which,
let's just format on Save.
We're just gonna, Turn that off for
just one hot second, and then I'm
going to move this and I'm gonna save.
And now if I run npm run format, you'll
see here one it fixed up here, right?
Cool, and then this is not grayed out,
which means it actually ran successfully.
So now if I'm working with someone
like the Primo Gen, right?
He can run this,
he can just say he doesn't have to
go figure out Prettier on his own.
I'm sure he has cuz he knows Vin
better than anyone anything else.
But he could just run my command for me,
and we had this like common language to
speak, which is why I like putting
this all in my package.json.
And it just makes explicit like this is
a Prettier project I expected to run on
these things, so on and so forth.
Okay, questions about that?
If it's working well we run the script but
not working when we save the file
what might be a troubleshooting step?
I need to turn this back on
DF Format on Save checked.
Could wait till after if needed.
I mean, the thing you can look at here is
if you can click on Problems that might
tell you something.
So the one thing is like,
if you have invalid syntax in here,
like if I just put semicolons there,
Prettier won't know what to do with that.
So if you have invalid syntax,
which would show up in Problems,
And then lastly,
you can click on OUTPUT here, and
you can look at the Prettier extension.
It'll give you a debug logout
of stuff that it can't run on.
If that's empty that means you don't
have Prettier installed properly.
So that's Prettier, now it's installed and
working, and
we can just ignore it going forward.